Hunt will come back in this video we're looking at the Q assignment.
Null-A you've learned what a cue is.
And it's time we start looking at some code and implementing some more methods just as we did in the
last assignment and this is going to help you and give you more experience.
This assignment is going to be slightly more complicated and the first as make sense as you are getting
better and better and more experienced.
There are five methods that you should implement in this assignment and two methods as part of the linked
list which are now modified to work with a Q and three methods are part of the queue itself.
Those new methods are quite small and they should be easy to implement.
The two methods two of them are from the linked list or the remove end from list which is going to remove
a node from the end of the list and the size method which just gives you a count of how many nodes are
in the list and the three methods from the Kuzari that says to what should be 3.
Push Pop and ln.
The LN method which has a built in Python method and we are going to look at what that does.
Soon enough the push method which will add a note to the start of the list.
The pop method which would remove a node and return it and the line which should return the size of
the list.
OK let's look at the code in a minute which can also be downloaded justice in the first assignment.
But first I'll give you once again some pseudocode to help you in implementing these methods.
The remove and from list should iterate over the nodes in the linked list.
Finding the second to last node not the last node but the one before with that second to last node.
It should set it in its next node to be none.
When that happens the last node will not be pointed at by anything and therefore it will be removed
from the list.
OK the pseudocode here says the method should be called remove an from list and it does set a marker
to be the root while the marker has a value then it starts the iteration and we've looked at this in
the last video how to iterate.
But then it also gets the following node which is the markers next note and if the following note has
a value then it checks if the following node next node has a value and if it doesn't then that means
the following node is the last node.
Take a moment here to think about this.
We have the marker markers next node and that notes next note.
So we've got the next three nodes.
If the marker has a value on the market next note has a value.
We don't really know anything yet but if that last node has no next node then that means that that node
is the last note we're going to be looking at some code soon.
So we have the marker the following node and the following following node.
If the following node points to none.
That means the following node is the last node so if that is the case then we set the markers next KNOW
to be none.
And what that does is it removes the last node essentially and we return the following node which is
the node we've just deleted that so we can do things like print details of the node we've removed or
things like that.
Finally at the end of the iteration once again we say that the marker is the markers next node so we
can move over to the next node.
The size is fairly similar but instead of doing things with following nodes and stuff all it does is
it gets the marker node and a count variable initialized to 0 and then it just performs an iteration
and increasing count by 1 for every node that we visit.
And finally at the end it returns the count as that is the number of nodes in the list.
And I do apologise.
That's called find but it should be called size.
The queue methods will just call linked list methods where appropriate.
And I'm going to give you a bit of a challenge and try that on your own without my help.
They are short methods.
Read the description of what they should do and I'm sure you will get what code should be in them to
get started once again just download the zip file and go for it.
So just click on it download it.
Move those files to the folder and then open it up and that's what we're going to be doing just now
.
So I've got it open in Python and I'm going to be going over the code that is here so that you know
what you're doing.
We have a node class just as we did in the last assignment.
But this done it only has a name and a phone number.
It's not a student.
This time it's a cue for the phone.
So somebody is calling a shop for example and they are on a queue.
So each node has a name and a phone number and also the next node.
Just as we did in the last assignment and once again the set next and the next methods are exactly the
same.
So we only set the next node if they are an instance of the Node class or if there are none and we can
get the next node and we can also print the details out.
We've also got the link list which is part of what you should be implementing.
You should implement the ADD start to list which you can just reuse the method that we wrote in a previous
assignment the remove and from list which is not something we can reuse and the find method which is
something we can reuse from the last assignment.
And the size method which is not something we can reuse.
So new methods here are size.
As we said before and remove and from list the other two can just be copied and pasted over.
So the remove and from list once again should iterate over each node find both the second to last node
and the last node and set the second to last node next to be none.
If the last node is indeed the last node and finally return the last note.
OK you can try that.
And that the size method you know what it should do is just iterate over keeping a count of how many
nodes have been iterated over and finally return back count of the end.
So this is a long list just as we created in the last assignment but now it has a couple more bits of
functionality such as to remove from the end or to get the size of it.
The queue is not this class.
This class is only a linked list.
The queue itself is in these other linked queue file and it's called linked queue and a queue is just
a wrapper around a linked list.
Think of it as an API essentially and this means that methods like add to list start which adds at the
beginning of the list should now be called Push.
Because push is the normal name for the method in a queue.
When you are talking with other computer scientists about queues everyone is going to know what push
means when you're talking with other computer scientists or accuse everyone who's going to know what
pop means.
So the push method should only add a node to the linked list and the queue has a property which is self-taught
on that one just calling list which is a linked list object.
So that's the class that is in the other file.
When I'm pushing to a linked list which is adding at the start of the linked list how do you think that
that's going to go.
How do you think using this property you can add at the beginning of the linked list.
I'm sure you got it all you would do in this method is self.
Don't just go on the calling list add to start of list node and I'm giving you this hint here as a special
.
This is what this method should do.
Essentially rename the linked lists method from AB start to list the new name is going to be push.
It lives in a different object but really that's all it does.
And that way we can have standardized names for queues and stacks and things like that which is push
as opposed to start and to start at the beginning.
Things like that.
But please do implement that on your own.
Similarly the pop method is going to just return the last node and that is also returned by the remove
from end method in the linked list.
And finally the underscore underscore Lenn which should also return the size of the linked list so once
again just calling the size method of your linked list.
As an aside the underscore underscore Len method is used so that instead of my variable dot size we
can do Len.
My variable.
So that is what these are the two underscore Len method is used for.
We could get the size using the size method of a linked list or if we have this implemented we can just
use this LAN builtin method to Python and so it just makes things a wee bit simpler really.
But it's not much of a difference.
So with that info please do go ahead and give this a go.
Give it a try.
Look at the code read it understand it and then try to implement this.
So it's a two fold exercise both in implementation and also in reading the code that I give you at the
end.
Once you are ready once again just go to the tests file right click it and run the unit tests.
You should see 10 tests passed or all 10 tests passed and this bar green right now because things are
not implemented.
You are seeing 8 tests fail and that's it really.
Once that is done you and the body is green you ready to move on to the next video.
After the text assignment in the next lecture and we'll look at how to implement this there if your
tests do fail or you get stuck or anything like that please go ahead and ask a question in the course
Q&A or send me a message and I'll be more than glad to reply and give you a hand.
That's it for this video.
So the next one is going to be the text assignment which has a downloads and the one after that will
be the implementation of this so I'll see you there.